#summary Beginner Web programming project tutorial.

= Introduction =

Made to be the very first beginner tutorial for anyone wanting to start web programming.  

The project is to fetch a few records from a database and display the records on a web page.

A follow up project will be how to store records into the database.

You, the programmer, will be writing HTML / PHP / SQL code.

= Install Software =


The first thing to do is install servers on your personal windows computer. let me refer to {xampp} as the installation folder of your servers.

http://www.apachefriends.org/en/xampp-windows.html


now install something you'll be using to write the code with.

http://notepad-plus-plus.org/download

= Test Installation =

==HTML==
in any web browser go to: localhost/

should see stuff about your installed servers.

now for you to write your own web page using only HTML. Open notepad++ and type:

`<html><body>html page</body></html>`

go to {xampp}/htdocs  and make a new folder 'recordList'.
save the web page in that new folder as 'page.html'

now in your web browser go to: localhost/recordList/page.html
you should see 'html page' being displayed.

==PHP==

now for you to write your own web page using only php.  Open notepad++ and type in a new file,

{{{
<?php

echo "php page";

?>
}}}

save as: {xampp}/htdocs/recordList/page.php

check with browser: localhost/recordList/page.php
you should see 'php page' being displayed.

==MYSQL==

  * phpmyadmin

go to: localhost/phpmyadmin
this is how you will manage your database.
  
  * new db/table
just follow the user friendly interface to create a database & tables.

  # create db: recordListDB
  # create table, 'pets', with two fields, 'type','name' as 'VARCHAR' with length 50.

  * insert/browse data

  # click 'Insert' and enter in the values, 'cat', 'fluffy'. thus inserting a cat with the name 'fluffy'.
  # click 'Browse' and you should see all your inserted pets.
  # repeatly add more pets

  * SQL code

  # click SQL.  enter the following: `SELECT * FROM pets;`

the result should show all pets. later you will use this SQL code to fetch all the pets onto a web page.

=Integration=

==PHP / MYSQL==

display first record from db table.

==HTML Table==

code to make a basic table.

==HTML / PHP==

php code to make a basic html table

fill html table with data.